We did add a basic authentication flow or a signup flow in the last lecture
but we have one huge security flaw in our current approach.
Do you know which flaw that is? Well we can see it in this line
when we store a password.
We're storing the password in plain text and we can see that here in compass,
this is the password I entered and it's stored in plain text.
Now this is not how you should do it
because if your database gets compromised which of course we want to avoid
but if it happens or if some employee of your company has the rights to look into it, your user passwords
are fully exposed.
So what we should do is we should encrypt that password,
we should hash it in a way that is not reversible, where people cannot construct the password from, so
that even if you get access to the database,
you might be able to see the e-mail but you're not able to see the password, the real password that belongs
to the e-mail.
This is something you should implement and this is something we will implement now
and for this we'll install another package. So I'll quit my server with Control C and install that package
with npm install --save and the name of the package is bcryptjs,
written like this.
This is a package that helps us with encryption and that will help us with encrypting the password.
Now once this was installed, we can restart our server with npm start and now in the auth controller here,
we can use bcrypt,
so here I will add an import at the top and I'll name it bcrypt,
the name is up to you and I'll require bcryptjs, like this,
so the package we just installed. With it installed,
let's head over to post sign up here and here instead of storing the password like this, I will store
a hash password. For this right before I create my user,
I'll use the bcrypt package which I installed and which I imported here and I will call the hash
method. The hash method as a first value takes the string which you want to hash,
so in our case the password, so we'll pass the password here.
The second argument then is the salt value,
now this is simply specifying how many rounds of hashing will be applied you could say
and the higher the value, the longer it will take but the more secure that will be,
currently a value of 12 is accepted as highly secure.
Now this will generate a hash password
but this is an asynchronous task and therefore this actually gives us back a promise.
So I will return this so that I can chain another then call, a then block where I will get my hashed
password as an argument
once it's done,
so this function here will be called once the hashing is done and therefore the user creation will go
into this then block and there I have the hashed password available and the hashed password is what I'll
store here.
And with that, we dramatically improve the performance because now if I do sign up again, first of all
let's use a different e-mail
otherwise it should fail, we can test this in a second too.
So I use a different e-mail,
if I sign up now and I look into my collection, this is the new user and this is of course not the password
I entered,
this is the hashed value and the important thing is you can't reconstruct the password I use,
you can't decrypt this.
This is also the reason why we don't encrypt the e-mail because we won't be able to decrypt this,
I will still show you how we can then find out if the user entered a correct password but we can't decrypt
it,
so if we need to send messages to that e-mail, that would not work if we encrypt the e-mail as well because
we could not revert that.
So we need to store the e-mail like this but the password is secured,
it's not readable.
So this is how we should store it
and now I will get rid of my other user but not before testing whether that works.
So if I try to create a user with that same email again, I'm redirected to sign up.
So I don't see an error message because I didn't add anything that would show such a message
but it seems to fail here,
that is good
so for now, we can't create a new user with the same credentials.
Let's now get rid of this one with the insecure password and continue with the one with the secure password.